Add a user guide (#140)
strata-org/jverify: docs/guide/src/code_types.md

# Code types
All code in a Java program that uses JVerify can be assigned two properties: whether it is pure, and whether it is erased. The following two sections discuss what these properties are for and how they work.

> ## Pure code

Reviewer: I think we also have to mention below that arguments to method calls have to be pure (at least for now)

Author: Good callout

> Code that occurs in a contract, such as the arguments of calls to `precondition`, `postcondition` and `check`, must follow the rules for pure code. These are:

Reviewer: I'd first say simply what "pure" means in a more intuitive sense, perhaps "deterministic and side-effect free"

Author: Will do

- Only methods annotated with `@Pure` can be called.

> - Local variables or fields can not be updated.

Reviewer: Will we ever support mutable local variables by changing the translation?

Author: I think that for transparent pure methods, we may never support non-functional code, because it is messy to translate and such a translation would be bad for verification performance.

My intention is not to allow `@Pure` methods to specify postconditions unless they add a `@Opaque` modifier, which hides the body and makes it unrevealable. If a method is pure and opaque, then my hope is that we can allow arbitrary use of statements as long as the method remains deterministic.

Code that occurs in a method annotated with `@Pure` must follow those same rules, and additionally:
- Only the following statements can be used:
  - variable declaration statements,

>   - calls to `precondition`, `postcondition`, `reads` and `assert`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - calls to `precondition`, `postcondition`, `reads`, and `check`
```

>   - a single `return <expr>` statement at the end, in which other pure methods may be called

Reviewer: This at least is something we'll improve on by translating to LetExprs I hope? We can link to the supported features list to clarify better.

Author: What's the improvement you'd like? I didn't follow.

Reviewer: Oh I missed "variable declaration statements" at first, that's what I was looking for.

We can still support more but I think #134 covers the biggest gap.

> - If any fields of a reference are read, that reference must occur in a `reads` call. We'll explain what reads calls are in the next section. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If any fields of a reference are read, that reference must occur in a `reads` call. We'll explain what reads calls are below. 
```

(Since we're generally using "section" to mean separate pages)

Summary table:

| | **@Pure method** | **impure method** |
|---|---|---|
| **Can be called inside a contract** | yes | no |
| **Restricted use of statements** | yes | no |
| **Needs reads calls** | yes | no |
| **Can update variables** | no | yes |

### Reads calls

JVerify guarantees that a `@Pure` method is deterministic, meaning that given the same  it returns the same output. To use this property however, we need to know what the input is. In a language with references like Java, it's not enough to know what the method arguments are. 

JVerify requires that a method marked with `@Pure` is explicit about which objects it reads fields from. This can be specified using `reads` calls. The `reads` method takes one or multiple `object` arguments. Example:

```java
class Engine {
    int horsePower;
}
class Car {
    Engine engine;
    
    public int readHorsePower() {
        reads(this, engine); // without this line, the next line would emit an error
        return this.engine.horsePower;
    }
}
``` 

> ## Erased code

Reviewer: Might be worth mentioning this is similar to how Java already erases generics?

In an earlier example of a binary search program, we saw that a Java method can be given the annotation `@Erased`. This annotation change the rules that are applied to the code inside that method, and change where the method may be called.

> Any code inside a method annotated with `@Erased`, or that is part of a contract, is _erased_, meaning it will not be executed at runtime. Erased code is used purely for writing JVerify specifications and proofs. Because it is not executed, it may perform operations that would be costly to execute, such as evaluating `forall` and `exists` expressions, and working with unbounded numbers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any code inside a method annotated with `@Erased`, or that is part of a contract, is _erased_, meaning it will not be executed at runtime. Erased code is used purely for writing JVerify specifications and proofs. Because it is not executed, it may perform operations that would be costly or impossible to execute, such as evaluating `forall` and `exists` expressions.
```

Removing the reference to unbounded numbers since we haven't hit that topic, and it's too easy to ask "but what about BigInteger?" :)

Here are the rules for different code contexts:

| **Effect \ Context**                       | **@Erased method** | **executed method** |
|--------------------------------------------|--------------------|---------------------|
| **Can be called from an executed context** | no                 | yes                 |
| **Can use forall and exists**              | yes                | no                  |
| **Can use @Unbounded**                     | yes                | no                  |

Code inside a contract is always erased.

> In the next section, [Quantifiers](quantifiers.md), we'll explain how the `forall` method works, as well an introduce `exists`.

Reviewer: Maybe provide a link to Integers since you mention @Unbounded above as well.

> In the next section, [Quantifiers](quantifiers.md), we'll explain how the `forall` method works, as well an introduce `exists`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the next section, [Quantifiers](quantifiers.md), we'll explain how the `forall` method works, as well as introduce `exists`.
```
